CAIPs/caip-10.md, before:

---
caip: 10
title: Account ID Specification
author: Pedro Gomes (@pedrouid)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/10
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2020-03-13
updated: 2020-03-18
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

CAIP-10 defines a way to identify an account in any blockchain specified by CAIP-2 blockchain id.

## Abstract

This proposal aims to facilitate specifying accounts for any blockchain extending CAIP-2 blockchain id specification. This is useful for both decentralized applications and wallets to communicate user accounts for multiple chains using string identifiers specific to each chain. Currently wallets are usually designed for each chain and multi-chain wallets use proprietray data structures to differentiate accounts. This proposal aims to standardize these identifiers for accounts to allow interoperability.

## Motivation

The motivation for proposal stem from designing a chain-agnostic protocol for communication between dapps and wallets that was independent of any blockchain but provide the flexibility to be backwards compatible with existing applications.

## Specification

The account id specification will be prefixed with the CAIP-2 blockchain ID and delimited with a comma sign (`:`)

### Syntax

The `account_id` is a case-sensitive string in the form

```
account_id:        chain_id + ":" + account_address
chain_id:          [:-a-zA-Z0-9]{5,41}
account_address:   [a-zA-Z0-9]{1,64}
```

### Semantics

The `chain_id` is specified by the [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) which describes the blockchain id.
The `account_address` is a case sensitive string which its format is specific to the blockchain that is referred to by the `chain_id`

## Rationale

The goals of the general account ID format is:

- Uniqueness between chains regardless if they are mainnet or testnet
- Readibility using the prefix of a chainId to quickly identify before parsing the address
- Restricted to constrained set of characters and length for parsing

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# Ethereum mainnet
eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb

# Bitcoin mainnet
bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93:128Lkh3S7CkDTBZ8W7BbpsN3YYizJMp8p6

# Cosmos Hub
cosmos:cosmoshub-3:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0

# Kusama network
polkadot:b0a8d493285c2df73290dfb7e61f870f:5hmuyxw9xdgbpptgypokw4thfyoe3ryenebr381z9iaegmfy

# Dummy max length (64+1+8+1+32 = 106 chars/bytes)
chainstd:8c3444cf8970a9e41a706fab93e7a6c4:6d9b0b4b9994e8a6afbd3dc3ed983cd51c755afb27cd1dc7825ef59c134a39f7
```

## Links

n/a

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

fix typo and add backwards compatiblity to CAIP-10

CAIPs/caip-10.md, after:

---
caip: 10
title: Account ID Specification
author: Pedro Gomes (@pedrouid)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/10
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2020-03-13
updated: 2020-03-18
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

CAIP-10 defines a way to identify an account in any blockchain specified by CAIP-2 blockchain id.

## Abstract

This proposal aims to facilitate specifying accounts for any blockchain extending CAIP-2 blockchain id specification. This is useful for both decentralized applications and wallets to communicate user accounts for multiple chains using string identifiers specific to each chain. Currently wallets are usually designed for each chain and multi-chain wallets use proprietray data structures to differentiate accounts. This proposal aims to standardize these identifiers for accounts to allow interoperability.

## Motivation

The motivation for proposal stem from designing a chain-agnostic protocol for communication between dapps and wallets that was independent of any blockchain but provide the flexibility to be backwards compatible with existing applications.

## Specification

The account id specification will be prefixed with the CAIP-2 blockchain ID and delimited with a colon sign (`:`)

### Syntax

The `account_id` is a case-sensitive string in the form

```
account_id:        chain_id + ":" + account_address
chain_id:          [:-a-zA-Z0-9]{5,41}
account_address:   [a-zA-Z0-9]{1,64}
```

### Semantics

The `chain_id` is specified by the [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) which describes the blockchain id.
The `account_address` is a case sensitive string which its format is specific to the blockchain that is referred to by the `chain_id`

## Rationale

The goals of the general account ID format is:

- Uniqueness between chains regardless if they are mainnet or testnet
- Readibility using the prefix of a chainId to quickly identify before parsing the address
- Restricted to constrained set of characters and length for parsing

## Backwards Compatibility

Previously CAIP-10 schema was defined by appending as suffix the CAIP-2 chainId delimited by the at sign (`@`)

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# Ethereum mainnet
eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb

# Bitcoin mainnet
bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93:128Lkh3S7CkDTBZ8W7BbpsN3YYizJMp8p6

# Cosmos Hub
cosmos:cosmoshub-3:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0

# Kusama network
polkadot:b0a8d493285c2df73290dfb7e61f870f:5hmuyxw9xdgbpptgypokw4thfyoe3ryenebr381z9iaegmfy

# Dummy max length (64+1+8+1+32 = 106 chars/bytes)
chainstd:8c3444cf8970a9e41a706fab93e7a6c4:6d9b0b4b9994e8a6afbd3dc3ed983cd51c755afb27cd1dc7825ef59c134a39f7
```

## Links

n/a

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
