CAIPs/caip-7.md, before:

---
caip: 7
title: Blockchain Reference for the EOSIO Namespace
author: Sebastian Montero (@sebastianmontero)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/32
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2020-11-30
updated: 2020-11-30
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

This document is about the details of the EOSIO namespaces and references for CAIP-2.

## Abstract

In CAIP-2 a general blockchain identification scheme is defined. This is the
implementation of CAIP-2 for EOSIO.

## Motivation

See CAIP-2.

## Specification

### EOSIO Namespace

The namespace "eosio" refers to the EOSIO open-source blockchain platform.

#### Reference Definition

The definition is delegated to the [EOSIO Transactions Protocol Documentation](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/v2.0/protocol/transactions_protocol/#32-sign-transaction), the [Chain API Plugin Documentation of the EOSIO Developers Manual](https://developers.eos.io/manuals/eos/latest/nodeos/plugins/chain_api_plugin/api-reference/index?query=chain%20id&page=1#operation/get_info) and the pull request that implemented its generation [Chain ID generation implementation pull request](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/pull/3425). 
The Chain ID is the SHA256 hash of the genesis state of the chain, represented as lower case hexadecimal number of 64 digits.

## Rationale

Blockchains in the "eosio" namespace are identified by their Chain ID as mentioned in the Reference Definition Section.

## Backwards Compatibility

Not applicable

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# EOS Mainnet
eosio:aca376f206b8fc25a6ed44dbdc66547c36c6c33e3a119ffbeaef943642f0e906

# Jungle Testnet
eosio:e70aaab8997e1dfce58fbfac80cbbb8fecec7b99cf982a9444273cbc64c41473

# Telos Mainnet
eosio:4667b205c6838ef70ff7988f6e8257e8be0e1284a2f59699054a018f743b1d11

# Telos Testnet
eosio:1eaa0824707c8c16bd25145493bf062aecddfeb56c736f6ba6397f3195f33c9f
```

## Links

- [Chain API Plugin Documentation of the EOSIO Developers Manual](https://developers.eos.io/manuals/eos/latest/nodeos/plugins/chain_api_plugin/api-reference/index?query=chain%20id&page=1#operation/get_info)
- [Chain ID generation implementation pull request](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/pull/3425)
- [EOSIO Transactions Protocol Documentation](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/v2.0/protocol/transactions_protocol/#32-sign-transaction)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Updated the reference definition for the CAIP-2 EOSIO implementation to use a prefix of the chain ID

CAIPs/caip-7.md, after:

---
caip: 7
title: Blockchain Reference for the EOSIO Namespace
author: Sebastian Montero (@sebastianmontero)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/32
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2020-11-30
updated: 2020-11-30
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

This document is about the details of the EOSIO namespaces and references for CAIP-2.

## Abstract

In CAIP-2 a general blockchain identification scheme is defined. This is the
implementation of CAIP-2 for EOSIO.

## Motivation

See CAIP-2.

## Specification

### EOSIO Namespace

The namespace "eosio" refers to the EOSIO open-source blockchain platform.

#### Reference Definition

The definition is delegated to the [EOSIO Transactions Protocol Documentation](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/v2.0/protocol/transactions_protocol/#32-sign-transaction), the [Chain API Plugin Documentation of the EOSIO Developers Manual](https://developers.eos.io/manuals/eos/latest/nodeos/plugins/chain_api_plugin/api-reference/index?query=chain%20id&page=1#operation/get_info) and the pull request that implemented its generation [Chain ID generation implementation pull request](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/pull/3425). 
The Chain ID, as defined by EOSIO, is the SHA256 hash of the genesis state of the chain, represented as lower case hexadecimal number of 64 digits. In order to fit the reference restrictions, the format is a 32 character prefix of the Chain ID.

## Rationale

Blockchains in the "eosio" namespace are identified by their Chain ID as mentioned in the Reference Definition Section.

## Backwards Compatibility

Not applicable

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# EOS Mainnet
eosio:aca376f206b8fc25a6ed44dbdc66547c

# Jungle Testnet
eosio:e70aaab8997e1dfce58fbfac80cbbb8f

# Telos Mainnet
eosio:4667b205c6838ef70ff7988f6e8257e8

# Telos Testnet
eosio:1eaa0824707c8c16bd25145493bf062a
```

## Links

- [Chain API Plugin Documentation of the EOSIO Developers Manual](https://developers.eos.io/manuals/eos/latest/nodeos/plugins/chain_api_plugin/api-reference/index?query=chain%20id&page=1#operation/get_info)
- [Chain ID generation implementation pull request](https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/pull/3425)
- [EOSIO Transactions Protocol Documentation](https://developers.eos.io/welcome/v2.0/protocol/transactions_protocol/#32-sign-transaction)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
