CAIPs/caip-ipld_anchor_event.md, before:

---
caip: <to be assigned>
title: IPLD Timestamp Proof
author: Zach Ferland <@zachferland>, Joel Thorstensson (@oed)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/168
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2022-10-27
updated: 2022-11-7
requires: CAIP-74
---

## Simple Summary 

Create and verify IPLD based blockchain timestamp proofs. 

## Abstract

This specification describes the construction and verification of [IPLD](https://ipld.io/) based blockchain timestamp proofs. Blockchain timestamping or anchoring is a commonly used pattern to ensure the data integrity of an arbitrarily large dataset that does not fit on chain (due to cost, size, limits, etc), by only publishing a small unique digest of the dataset on the blockchain. Authenticated DAG based data structures, like IPLD, are a powerful and native way to represent datasets to be blockchain anchored and to define related blockchain anchor proofs. IPLD also being general enough to represent and reference many types of datasets, including existing DAG based data structures like blockchains. 

## Motivation

IPLD based blockchain anchor proofs offer a primitive building block to construct different types of databases and data models on top of a DAG based data structure. Frequently blockchain anchors are used for timestamping, by allowing some notion of time to be attributed to events in a decentralized way and for the properties and security of an existing blockchain to support it. This specification emphasis timestamping based use cases.

Further, when anchoring multiple events, this allows for event ordering and time based conflict resolution. This provides the building blocks for different types of consensus algorithms to be implemented over an IPLD based data structure.

## Specification

Merkle trees are a commonly used data structure, this specification focuses on elaborating where needed to describe them in IPLD, while leaving other details to common Merkle tree descriptions and implementations. Formats and types are described using [IPLD schema language](https://ipld.io/docs/schemas/).

### IPLD Based Digest

In a general blockchain anchor implementation a message digest is published to the blockchain. There are many ways to create such a digest and implementors have to agree on construction, naming, resolution, etc. [IPLD CIDs](https://github.com/multiformats/cid) already serve this purpose by offering a standard self-describing format, cryptographic hashing and content addressing. 

### IPLD Based Merkle Tree

Typically users, applications, and services/protocols are interested in committing a set of data in a blockchain anchor. As it is can be inefficient to commit a single piece of data. Generally Merkle trees have been used to efficiently publish a blockchain anchor by publishing only the Merkle root over a set of inputs and allowing verification that a given piece of data was included in the set through a Merkle proof. 

Again IPLD offers a natural and standard way to to encode a Merkle tree, with the added benefit of allowing anyone to easily resolve the entire tree, paths or subset of the tree when verifying a Merkle proof. We suggest encoding a IPLD Merkle tree as follows, but IPLD is self descriptive enough that verification is possible with any construction. 

The set of data to be committed, or “leaves” of the Merkle tree are expected to be a set of IPLD CIDs. A binary Merkle tree is used, and a node value is constructed with two “leaves” or CIDs using a list. The data is encoded in IPLD with [dag-cbor](https://ipld.io/specs/codecs/dag-cbor/spec/), the resulting IPLD block results in another CID for this tree node. 

IPLD Merke Tree Node Type

```tsx
type NodeList [Link]
```

Example 1

```tsx
[CID(bagcqcerav5zyrlelnnx24blbgob6stz6y4oiwenn3hodbmyf7bnnguh6gdeq), CID(bagcqcera4nnpzmwsk2bbww6n4bgq3cwne6gmhkouciam44nyjbindkxpz2eq)
```

Non leaf nodes are then recursively built in the same way using list pairs of CIDs until you have constructed the entire Merkle tree and a root Node/CID. 

### IPLD Blockchain Anchor

A blockchain anchor is made up of both a Merkle tree root CID and the corresponding reference to a blockchain transaction which includes the Merkle tree root. The blockchain transaction is referenced by a IPLD CID using the corresponding IPLD codec for the blockchain and the CAIP-2 chainID. There already exists IPLD codecs for two of the most commonly used blockchains for anchoring, Bitcoin and Ethereum. IPLD codec support may have to be added to support other chains. 

```tsx
type BlockchainAnchor struct {
  root Link
  chainID String 
  txHash Link
}
```

Example 2
```tsx
{
  root: CID(bafyreiaxdhr5jbabn7enmbb5wpmnm3dwpncbqjcnoneoj22f3sii5vfg74)
  chainID: "eip155:1"
  txHash: CID(bagjqcgzanbud4sqdsywfp2mckuj57qsffsovgyjhh7sxebkqwr335hzy2zbq)
}
```

Blockchain transaction resolution, parsing, and verification can later be defined by each blockchain CAIP-2 namespace if needed. Implementations will vary and may even vary for the same chain. Optional parameters can be included here to indicate the methods required. For now transaction resolution, parsing, and verification is out of scope for this specification. 

### IPLD Based Merkle Proofs

A Merkle proof allows verification that a given piece of data or “leaf” was included in the set of data for the given Merkle Tree. A  typical proof includes a Merkle root of the tree and a subset list of tree node hashes that allow verification by reconstructing the Merkle root starting from the data or "leaf" you are interested in.

In IPLD a Merkle root (CID) and a “path” are provided that allows you to traverse the tree from the root to the piece of data your interested in. Paths are strings and refer to [Pathing in IPLD](https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/pathing/). Following an IPLD path, and ultimately resolving the data or "leaf" you are interested in from the root, is equivalent to a standard proof. 

As defined above, an IPLD Merkle tree node includes a list pair. List traversal in IPLD is defined by index, for example 0 referencing the first item, 1 referencing the second. An example IPLD path through a tree could look as such `0/0/1/0/1/1`. It is also possible to reference trees as part of other paths, for example `myprotocol/mytree/0/0/1/0/1/1` or any general path if the suggested construction above is not followed. 

### IPLD Anchor Proof

The combination of an IPLD based Merkle proof and blockchain anchor now make up the entirety of an anchor proof for a given piece of data. 

```tsx
type AnchorProof struct {
  proof Link
  path String 
}
```

Example 4
```tsx
{
  proof: CID(bafyreietaedczjxh7omxfjm3oj55nbmxaga3himruubppgj3hp6dayonqq)
  path: "0/0/1/0/1/1"
}
```

Additional parameters can be added specific to a protocol or implementation that directly reference the data or support additional verification steps. For example a `data` parameter mapping to a CID, or a `prev` parameter in a log based IPLD data structure mapping to the prior CID in a log. 

### Anchor Proof Verification 

The following algorithm describes the steps required to verify a given anchor proof. If any step fails, an error MUST be raised. 

1) Resolve blockhain anchor CID (anchor_proof.proof).
2) Resolve blockchain transaction by `txHash` CID and `chainId`.
3) Verify that the blockchain transaction includes the blockchain anchor root (blockchain_anchor.root) in its payload. How it is inlcuded in the transaction will be defined in the blockchain CAIP-2 namespace and is out of scope here. 
3) Verify that the blockchain transaction is valid, as defined by that blockchain and in the blockchain CAIP-2 namespace. Transaction validity is out of scope here. 
4) Resolve the path (anchor_proof.path) in IPLD. Path resolution MUST resolve. If it does not, an error MUST be raised. 
5) Return, anchor proof is valid for the data resolved by the path (anchor_proof.path).


## Links
- [IPLD](https://ipld.io/)
- [IPLD CIDs](https://github.com/multiformats/cid)
- [IPLD schema language](https://ipld.io/docs/schemas/)
- [dag-cbor](https://ipld.io/specs/codecs/dag-cbor/spec/)
- [Pathing in IPLD](https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/pathing/)

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

example change, add txType, caip-2 namespace references, minor edits

CAIPs/caip-ipld_anchor_event.md, after:

---
caip: <to be assigned>
title: IPLD Timestamp Proof
author: Zach Ferland <@zachferland>, Joel Thorstensson (@oed)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/168
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2022-10-27
updated: 2022-11-7
requires: CAIP-74
---

## Simple Summary 

Create and verify IPLD based blockchain timestamp proofs. 

## Abstract

This specification describes the construction and verification of [IPLD](https://ipld.io/) based blockchain timestamp proofs. Blockchain timestamping or anchoring is a commonly used pattern to ensure the data integrity of an arbitrarily large dataset that does not fit on chain (due to cost, size, limits, etc), by only publishing a small unique digest of the dataset on the blockchain. Authenticated DAG based data structures, like IPLD, are a powerful and native way to represent datasets to be blockchain anchored and to define related blockchain anchor proofs. IPLD also being general enough to represent and reference many types of datasets, including existing DAG based data structures like blockchains. 

## Motivation

IPLD based blockchain anchor proofs offer a primitive building block to construct different types of databases and data models on top of a DAG based data structure. Frequently blockchain anchors are used for timestamping, by allowing some notion of time to be attributed to events in a decentralized way and for the properties and security of an existing blockchain to support it. This specification emphasis timestamping based use cases.

Further, when anchoring multiple events, this allows for event ordering and time based conflict resolution. This provides the building blocks for different types of consensus algorithms to be implemented over an IPLD based data structure.

## Specification

Merkle trees are a commonly used data structure, this specification focuses on elaborating where needed to describe them in IPLD, while leaving other details to common Merkle tree descriptions and implementations. Formats and types are described using [IPLD schema language](https://ipld.io/docs/schemas/).

### IPLD Based Digest

In a general blockchain anchor implementation a message digest is published to the blockchain. There are many ways to create such a digest and implementors have to agree on construction, naming, resolution, etc. [IPLD CIDs](https://github.com/multiformats/cid) already serve this purpose by offering a standard self-describing format, cryptographic hashing and content addressing. 

### IPLD Based Merkle Tree

Typically users, applications, and services/protocols are interested in committing a set of data in a blockchain anchor. As it is can be inefficient to commit a single piece of data. Generally Merkle trees have been used to efficiently publish a blockchain anchor by publishing only the Merkle root over a set of inputs and allowing verification that a given piece of data was included in the set through a Merkle proof. 

Again IPLD offers a natural and standard way to to encode a Merkle tree, with the added benefit of allowing anyone to easily resolve the entire tree, paths or subset of the tree when verifying a Merkle proof. We suggest encoding a IPLD Merkle tree as follows, but IPLD is self descriptive enough that verification is possible with any construction. 

The set of data to be committed, or “leaves” of the Merkle tree are expected to be a set of IPLD CIDs. A binary Merkle tree is used, and a node value is constructed with two “leaves” or CIDs using a list. The data is encoded in IPLD with [dag-cbor](https://ipld.io/specs/codecs/dag-cbor/spec/), the resulting IPLD block results in another CID for this tree node. 

IPLD Merke Tree Node Type

```tsx
type NodeList [Link]
```

Example 1

```tsx
[CID(bafyreig3lwe3xf2qmip6radn7iuars7g4xr2ktrgoxyryx65cwe4jpbmny), CID(bafyreieaqjqd7oee3aaghcal3woxbxmjy6l52wt4yp24o6ei3cayeiu2cm)
```

Non leaf nodes are then recursively built in the same way using list pairs of CIDs until you have constructed the entire Merkle tree and a root Node/CID. 

### IPLD Blockchain Anchor

A blockchain anchor is made up of both a Merkle tree root CID and the corresponding reference to a blockchain transaction which includes the Merkle tree root. The blockchain transaction is referenced by a IPLD CID using the corresponding IPLD codec for the blockchain and the CAIP-2 chainID. There already exists IPLD codecs for two of the most commonly used blockchains for anchoring, Bitcoin and Ethereum. IPLD codec support may have to be added to support other chains. 

```tsx
type BlockchainAnchor struct {
  root Link
  chainID String 
  txHash Link
  txType String
}
```

Example 2
```tsx
{
  root: CID(bafyreiaxdhr5jbabn7enmbb5wpmnm3dwpncbqjcnoneoj22f3sii5vfg74)
  chainID: "eip155:1"
  txHash: CID(bagjqcgzanbud4sqdsywfp2mckuj57qsffsovgyjhh7sxebkqwr335hzy2zbq)
  txType: 'raw'
}
```

Blockchain transaction resolution, parsing, and verification are to be defined by each blockchain CAIP-2 namespace. Implementations will vary and will even vary for the same chain. The `txType` parameter string is used to discriminate between different transaction verification methods for the same chain. Every `txType` is expected to be defined in the corresponding blockchain CAIP-2 namespace. The corresponding blockchain CAIP-2 namespace can be found in the `chainId`. The example above references the `raw` transaction type verification in the `eip155` namespace. 

### IPLD Based Merkle Proofs

A Merkle proof allows verification that a given piece of data or “leaf” was included in the set of data for the given Merkle Tree. A  typical proof includes a Merkle root of the tree and a subset list of tree node hashes that allow verification by reconstructing the Merkle root starting from the data or "leaf" you are interested in.

In IPLD a Merkle root (CID) and a “path” are provided that allows you to traverse the tree from the root to the piece of data your interested in. Paths are strings and refer to [Pathing in IPLD](https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/pathing/). Following an IPLD path, and ultimately arriving at the data or "leaf" you are interested in from the root, is equivalent to a standard proof. Implementations may resolve the subset of the tree needed for verification on demand from a network (for example IPFS) or may package all necessary blocks/nodes together and present them alongside the proof. 

As defined above, an IPLD Merkle tree node includes a list pair. List traversal in IPLD is defined by index, for example 0 referencing the first item, 1 referencing the second. An example IPLD path through a tree could look as such `0/0/1/0/1/1`. It is also possible to reference trees as part of other paths, for example `myprotocol/mytree/0/0/1/0/1/1` or any general path if the suggested construction above is not followed. 

### IPLD Anchor Proof

The combination of an IPLD based Merkle proof and blockchain anchor now make up the entirety of an anchor proof for a given piece of data. 

```tsx
type AnchorProof struct {
  proof Link
  path String 
}
```

Example 4
```tsx
{
  proof: CID(bafyreietaedczjxh7omxfjm3oj55nbmxaga3himruubppgj3hp6dayonqq)
  path: "0/0/1/0/1/1"
}
```

Additional parameters can be added specific to a protocol or implementation that directly reference the data or support additional verification steps. For example a `data` parameter mapping to a CID, or a `prev` parameter in a log based IPLD data structure mapping to the prior CID in a log. 

### Anchor Proof Verification 

The following algorithm describes the steps required to verify a given anchor proof. If any step fails, an error MUST be raised. 

1) Resolve blockhain anchor CID (anchor_proof.proof).
2) Resolve blockchain transaction by `txHash` CID and `chainId`.
3) Verify that the blockchain transaction includes the blockchain anchor root (blockchain_anchor.root) in its payload. How it is inlcuded in the transaction will be defined in the blockchain CAIP-2 namespace and is out of scope here. 
3) Verify that the blockchain transaction is valid, as defined by that blockchain and in the blockchain CAIP-2 namespace. Transaction validity is out of scope here. 
4) Resolve the path (anchor_proof.path) in IPLD. Path resolution MUST resolve. If it does not, an error MUST be raised. 
5) Return, anchor proof is valid for the data resolved by the path (anchor_proof.path).


## Links
- [IPLD](https://ipld.io/)
- [IPLD CIDs](https://github.com/multiformats/cid)
- [IPLD schema language](https://ipld.io/docs/schemas/)
- [dag-cbor](https://ipld.io/specs/codecs/dag-cbor/spec/)
- [Pathing in IPLD](https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/pathing/)

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
