CAIPs/caip-5.md, before:

---
caip: 5
title: Blockchain Reference for Cosmos
author: Simon Warta (@webmaster128)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/5, https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/6, https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/1
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2019-12-05
updated: 2019-12-12
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

This document is about the details of the Cosmos namespaces and references for CAIP-2.

## Abstract

In CAIP-2 a general blockchain identification scheme is defined. This is the
implementation of CAIP-2 for Cosmos.

## Motivation

See CAIP-2.

## Specification

This document defined the two namespaces Cosmos and Cosmos Hash.

### Cosmos Namespace

The namespace "cosmos" refers to the wider Cosmos ecosystem.

#### Reference Definition

The reference uses the Tendermint `chain_id` from the genesis file directly (a JSON-compatible unicode string), assuming it matches the case-sensitive pattern `[-a-zA-Z0-9]{3,47}`. Otherwise the Cosmos Hash namespace must be used.

### Cosmos Hash Namespace

In the namespace "cosmos-hash" the term "cosmos" refers to the wider Cosmos ecosystem and "hash" to the fact that native chain IDs are hashed in order to fit in the general format of CAIP-2.

#### Reference Definition

The `reference` is defined as `first_16_chars(hex(sha256(utf8(chain_id))))`, with

- the Tendermint `chain_id` from the genesis file (a JSON-compatible unicode string)
- `utf8` being the UTF-8 encoding
- `sha256` being the SHA256 hash function
- `hex` being a lowercase hex encoder
- `first_16_chars` being the first 16 characters

## Rationale

Blockchains in the "cosmos" namespace are [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk) blockchains (e.g. Cosmoshub, Binance, Cosmos Testnets) and [Weave](https://github.com/iov-one/weave) based blockchains (e.g. IOV) with a chain ID matching `[-a-zA-Z0-9]{3,47}`.

While there is no enforced restriction on chain_id, the author of this document did not find a
non-conforming chain ID in the wild. There is [a discussion about documenting a best practice chain ID pattern](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/5363).

Cosmos blockchains with a chain ID matching not matching `[-a-zA-Z0-9]{3,47}` fall into the "cosmos-hash" namespace.
No real world example is known to the author yet.

During the development of this chain ID definition, we came across changing chain IDs for Cosmos Hub (`cosmoshub-1`, `cosmoshub-2`, `cosmoshub-3`). A new chain ID is assigned every time Cosmos Hub dumps the current blockchain state and creates a new genesis from the old state. Technically this leads to different blockchains and can (and maybe should) treated as such. For this specification, we treat them as different blockchains. It is the responsibility of a higher level application to interpret some chains as sequels of each other or create equality sets.

## Backwards Compatibility

Not applicable

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# Cosmos Hub (Tendermint + Cosmos SDK)
cosmos:cosmoshub-2
cosmos:cosmoshub-3

# Binance chain (Tendermint + Cosmos SDK; see https://dataseed5.defibit.io/genesis)
cosmos:Binance-Chain-Tigris

# IOV Mainnet (Tendermint + Weave)
cosmos:iov-mainnet

# chain_id "x" (too short for the "cosmos" namespace)
cosmos-hash:2d711642b726b044

# chain_id "123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678" (too long for the "cosmos" namespace)
cosmos-hash:0204c92a0388779d

# chain_id "wonderland🧝" (invalid character for the "cosmos" namespace)
cosmos-hash:843d2fc87f40eeb9
```

## Links

- [Cosmos chain ID best practice](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/5363)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Use Namespace Cosmos for direct and hashed chain IDs

CAIPs/caip-5.md, after:

---
caip: 5
title: Blockchain Reference for the Cosmos Namespace
author: Simon Warta (@webmaster128)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/5, https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/6, https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/1
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2019-12-05
updated: 2020-01-16
requires: 2
---

## Simple Summary

This document is about the details of the Cosmos namespaces and references for CAIP-2.

## Abstract

In CAIP-2 a general blockchain identification scheme is defined. This is the
implementation of CAIP-2 for Cosmos.

## Motivation

See CAIP-2.

## Specification

### Cosmos Namespace

The namespace "cosmos" refers to the wider Cosmos ecosystem.

#### Reference Definition

##### Direct

The reference uses the Tendermint `chain_id` from the genesis file directly (a JSON-compatible unicode string),
if it matches the case-sensitive pattern `[-a-zA-Z0-9]{3,47}` and does not start with "hash-".

##### Hashed

Otherwise the `reference` is defined as `first_16_chars(hex(sha256(utf8(chain_id))))`, with

- the Tendermint `chain_id` from the genesis file (a JSON-compatible unicode string)
- `utf8` being the UTF-8 encoding
- `sha256` being the SHA256 hash function
- `hex` being a lowercase hex encoder
- `first_16_chars` being the first 16 characters

## Rationale

Blockchains in the "cosmos" namespace are [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk) blockchains (e.g. Cosmoshub, Binance, Cosmos Testnets) and [Weave](https://github.com/iov-one/weave) based blockchains (e.g. IOV).

While there is no enforced restriction on `chain_id`, the author of this document did not find a chain ID in the wild that does not conform to the restrictions of the direct reference definition.
There is [a discussion about documenting a best practice chain ID pattern](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/5363).

Cosmos blockchains with a chain ID not matching `[-a-zA-Z0-9]{3,47}` or prefixed with "hash-" need to be hashed in order to comply with CAIP-2.
No real world example is known to the author yet.

During the development of this chain ID definition, we came across changing chain IDs for Cosmos Hub (`cosmoshub-1`, `cosmoshub-2`, `cosmoshub-3`). A new chain ID is assigned every time Cosmos Hub dumps the current blockchain state and creates a new genesis from the old state. Technically this leads to different blockchains and can (and maybe should) treated as such. For this specification, we treat them as different blockchains. It is the responsibility of a higher level application to interpret some chains as sequels of each other or create equality sets.

## Backwards Compatibility

Not applicable

## Test Cases

This is a list of manually composed examples

```
# Cosmos Hub (Tendermint + Cosmos SDK)
cosmos:cosmoshub-2
cosmos:cosmoshub-3

# Binance chain (Tendermint + Cosmos SDK; see https://dataseed5.defibit.io/genesis)
cosmos:Binance-Chain-Tigris

# IOV Mainnet (Tendermint + Weave)
cosmos:iov-mainnet

# chain_ids "", "x" (too short for the direct definition)
cosmos:hash-e3b0c44298fc1c14
cosmos:hash-2d711642b726b044

# chain_ids "hash-", "hash-123" (invalid prefix for the direct definition)
cosmos:hash-b12b25a61c04f666
cosmos:hash-6abb36860ec76c5a

# chain_id "123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678" (too long for the direct definition)
cosmos:hash-0204c92a0388779d

# chain_ids " ", "wonderland🧝‍♂️" (invalid character for the direct definition)
cosmos:hash-36a9e7f1c95b82ff
cosmos:hash-843d2fc87f40eeb9
```

## Links

- [Cosmos chain ID best practice](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/5363)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
